.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 26, 2015
.Dt DISK-DMC 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm disk-dmc
.Nd firmware update utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl h
.Nm
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl v
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Fl d Ar dsk
.Fl p Ar path
.Op Fl s Ar 5|7
.Op Fl w Ar delay
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Fl m Ar str
.Fl p Ar path
.Op Fl s Ar 5|7
.Op Fl w Ar delay
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility performs firmware upgrade by issuing SCSI
.Sy Write Buffer
command (mode 5 or mode 7) on specified device(s).
.Nm
uses the
.Xr uscsi 7I
interface so the execution is limited to the root user.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width "-w delay"
.It Fl d Ar dsk
Specify the drive that will be targeted for firmware upgrade.
.Ar dsk
is the drive path in the form of
.Sy /dev/rdsk/c?t?d?p0
Requires
.Fl p .
This option is mutually exclusive with the
.Fl m
option.
.It Fl s 7|5
Change default (5) write buffer command mode. Supported values are 5 and 7.
If 5 is selected
.Nm
will attempt to download the full firmware file onto
the specified drive(s) in one write buffer command. If 7 is selected disk-dmc
will break up the firmware file into 32K chunks and send as many write buffer
commands as needed to complete the firmware transfer.
.It Fl h
Display the command line usage message.
.It Fl l
List the drives on a system available for firmware upgrade and display
information specific to each device. This is implied if
.Nm
is run without any arguments.
.It Fl m Ar str
Specify the model of drive(s) to download firmware to. All discovered drives
whose model exactly matches the
.Ar str
will be upgraded. Requires
.Fl p .
This option is mutually exclusive with the
.Fl d
option.
.It Fl p Ar path
Specify the path to the binary firmware image file you want to write to the
device.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode, turns on extra debug messages.
.It Fl w Ar delay
Number of seconds to delay check for drive readiness after downloading the
firmware. Also used for drive preparation timeouts.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fwflash 1M ,
.Xr uscsi 7I
.Pp
.Lk http://www.t10.org "The SCSI Storage Interfaces committee website"
