.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2012 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd Aug 26, 2012
.Dt APROPOS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm apropos ,
.Nm whatis
.Nd keyword search in
.Nm whatis
database files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl M Ar path
.Op Fl s Ar section
.Ar keyword ...
.Nm whatis
.Op Fl M Ar path
.Op Fl s Ar section
.Ar keyword ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility searches a set of
.Nm whatis
database files matching each
.Ar keyword .
The
.Nm whatis
utility does the same search but only on complete words. The
.Nm whatis
database files are created using
.Xr man 1
command.
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl d"
.It Fl M Ar path
Force a specific colon separated manual path instead of the default search path.
Overrides the
.Ev MANPATH
environment variable.
.It Fl s Ar section
Restrict search to specified
.Ar section .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev MANPATH , PATH"
.It Ev MANPATH , PATH
Used to find the location of the
.Nm whatis
database files.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 if a keyword matched and 1 if no keywords are matched or no
.Nm whatis
databases are found.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr man 1
