.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2012 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd October 18, 2012
.Dt MAN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm man
.Nd find and display reference manual pages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl alptw
.Op Fl M Ar manpath
.Op Fl s Ar mansect
.Ar page ...
.Nm
.Op Fl s Ar mansect
.Fl f
.Ar keyword ...
.Nm
.Op Fl s Ar mansect
.Fl k
.Ar keyword ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility finds and displays reference manual pages.
.Pp
Options that
.Nm
understands:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl M Ar manpath
Forces a specific colon separated manual path instead of the default
search path.
Overrides the
.Ev MANPATH
environment variable.
.It Fl a
Display all manual pages instead of just the first found for each
.Ar page
argument.
.It Fl f
Emulate
.Xr whatis 1 .
.It Fl k
Emulate
.Xr apropos 1 .
.It Fl l
Display the location of the manual page instead of the contents of
the manual page.
.It Fl p
Output current path used for searching.
.It Fl s Ar mansect
Restrict manual sections searched to the specified colon delimited list.
.It Fl t
Output PostScript allowing transformation of the manual pages to other formats.
.It Fl w
Create
.Nm whatis
databases used by
.Xr apropos 1
and
.Xr whatis 1 .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev MANPATH"
.It Ev LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE , LANG
Used to find locale-specific manual pages.
.It Ev MANPATH
Used to find the location of the manual files.
Corresponds to the
.Fl M
option.
.It Ev MANWIDTH
Defines the width of output. If set to
.Dq Li tty ,
and output is to a terminal, full width of terminal is used.
.It Ev PAGER
Program used to display files. If unset,
.Dq Li "less -ins"
is used.
.It Ev PATH
Used to find location of manual files if
.Ev MANPATH
and
.Fl M
are not specified.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Pa man.cf
Per-manpath configuration settings.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr intro 1 ,
.Xr mandoc 1 ,
.Xr whatis 1 ,
.Xr man 5 ,
.Xr mdoc 5
